Getting started with Grafana and MS SQL (#29401)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/getting-started/getting-started-sql.md

+++
title = "With Grafana and MS SQL"
description = "Guide for getting started with Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "intro", "guide", "started"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/guides/gettingstarted","/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started"]
weight = 400
+++

# Getting started with Grafana and MS SQL Server

> Microsoft SQL Server is a popular relational database management system that is widely used in development and production environments. Grafana v5.1+ ships with a built-in Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL) data source plugin that allows you to query and visualize data from any Microsoft SQL Server 2005 or newer, including Microsoft Azure SQL Database. 

Author: Updated this section.

> This topic walks you through the steps to create a series of dashboards in Grafana to display metrics from a MS SQL Server database. You can also configure the MS SQL Server data source on a [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/) instance without having to host Grafana yourself.

Author: Made changes to the introduction as per suggestion.

## Step 1: Install Grafana and build your first dashboard

Use the instructions in [Getting started with Grafana]({{< relref "getting-started.md" >}}) to:
- Install Grafana.
- Log in to Grafana.
- Create your first dashboard.

## Step 2: Download MS SQL Server

MS SQL Server can be installed on many different operating systems. Refer to the [MS SQL Server downloads page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-downloads), for a complete list of all available options.

> Alternately, install MS SQL Server using the resources available in [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) GitHub repository (recommended). Here you will find a collection of supported data sources, including MS SQL Server, along with test data and pre-configured dashboards for use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternately, if you are working on Mac or Linux, then you can install MS SQL Server using the resources available in [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) GitHub repository (recommended). Here you will find a collection of supported data sources, including MS SQL Server, along with test data and pre-configured dashboards for use.
```

> **Note:** Installing MS SQL Server on Windows from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv) GitHub repository is not supported at this time.

## Step 3: Install MS SQL Server

You can install MS SQL Server on the host running Grafana or on a remote server. To install the software from the [downloads page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-downloads), follow their setup prompts.

Otherwise, follow the instructions below to install and configure MS SQL Server from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository.

1. Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.

> 

Reviewer: Why are there empty lines between each list step?

Author: Removed empty lines.

Reviewer: Weird. It's not showing that on my screen.

1. Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.

1. Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

1. Run the bash command to setup datasources and dashboards in your Grafana.
   ```
    ./setup.sh
   ```

1. Restart the Grafana server.

1. Change directory back to [master](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

1. Run the make command to create the MS SQL Server database.
   ```
    make devenv sources=mssql
   ```
This creates an image of the SQL Server database and runs it as a Docker container.

## Step 4: Adding the MS SQL data source

To add MS SQL Server data source:

> 1. In the Grafana side menu, go to  **Configuration** and click **Data Sources** option.

Reviewer: Apply repetitive numbering.

Author: Done.

> 1. In the Grafana side menu, go to  **Configuration** and click **Data Sources** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) icon and then click **Data Sources**.
```

3. Click **Add data source** button in the top right header to open the configuration page.
4. Enter the information specified in the table below, then click **Save & Test** at the bottom of the page.
   
 Name           | Description
------------   | -------------
`Name`         | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels and queries.
`Host`         | The IP address/hostname and optional port of your MS SQL instance. If port is omitted, the default 1433 will be used.
`Database`     | Name of your MS SQL database.
`User`         | Database user's login/username.
`Password`     | Database user's password. 

For installations from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository, `gdev-mssql` data source is available. Once you add this datasource, the `Datasource tests - MSSQL` dashboard with three panels showing metrics generated from test database is available. 

<img src="/img/docs/getting-started/gdev-sql-dashboard.png" class="no-shadow" width="700px">

Use this to quickly spin up the dashboard and edit queries using SQL syntax. Also experiment with the dashboards to customize them to your needs to: 

> - createdifferent panels

Reviewer: Capitalize the first letter of each list item, add periods to the end, and follow the list with a blank line.

Otherwise, follow the instructions below to install and configure MS SQL Server from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository.

1. Clone the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository to your local system.

1. Install Docker or verify that it is installed on your machine.

1. Within your local `grafana` repository, change directory to [devenv](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

1. Run the bash command to setup datasources and dashboards.
   ```
    ./setup.sh
   ```

1. Restart the Grafana server.

1. Change directory back to [master](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/devenv).

1. Run the make command to create the MS SQL Server database.
   ```
    make devenv sources=mssql
   ```
This creates an image of the SQL Server database and runs it as a Docker container.

## Step 4: Adding the MS SQL data source

To add MS SQL Server data source:

1. In the Grafana side menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) icon and then click **Data Sources**.

> 2. Filter by `mssql` and select the **Microsoft SQL Server** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Filter by `mssql` and then select the **Microsoft SQL Server** option.
```

Author: Done.

> 3. Click **Add data source** button in the top right header to open the configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add data source** in the top right header to open the configuration page.
```

Author: Done

> 4. Enter the information specified in the table below, then click **Save & Test** at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter the information specified in the table below, then click **Save & Test**.
```

Author: Done

   
 Name           | Description
------------   | -------------
`Name`         | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels and queries.
`Host`         | The IP address/hostname and optional port of your MS SQL instance. If port is omitted, the default 1433 will be used.
`Database`     | Name of your MS SQL database.
`User`         | Database user's login/username.
`Password`     | Database user's password. 

> For installations from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository, `gdev-mssql` data source is available. Once you add this datasource, the `Datasource tests - MSSQL` dashboard with three panels showing metrics generated from test database is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For installations from the [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master) repository, the `gdev-mssql` data source is available. Once you add this data source, the `Datasource tests - MSSQL` dashboard with three panels showing metrics generated from test database is available.
```

Author: Done
